Nawaf Alotaishan   5/9/2021
"High Fidelity" Reading Response:


The text made me think more about how people present their digital identity and how I present myself in different spaces online. As for some people in certain spaces like Instagram for instance, people present their "virtual body" (Wilk) one-to-one presentation of their biological ones. While when people are asked to create a username in an online game, they would much rather obscure their identity, or let some of it pass through by picking a username that references their favorite movie, character, team or even their preferred play style in the game. In essence, I think most people wouldn't fully escape their identity, and their virtual is anchored to their biological one.

As the prevalence of the internet on our lives compounds more and more I think the independent cyber space dreams that came with those early 80s and 90s message boards, as Wilk describes, is a lost cause. The pandemic clearly showed us how the internet is a required utility and not a privilege. So, outside groups like governments and corporations will define their space and define how people should present their virtual body. Whether that is a good thing or bad thing is a different debate. But we see its impact when we are required to link our phone numbers to create our accounts or when we sign-in via google for its convenience or even when we write our name and open our camera in zoom. All these things limit anonymity, and that's why it is a lost cause, but I guess "no cause is lost if there is but one fool left to fight for it."
